The Olive Theory: Marshall and Lily claimed they were a perfect couple because of Marshall's hatred of olives and Lily's love of them, which creates a perfect balance. However, this theory is proved wrong when Marshall reveals he actually likes olives.
Suit Up: An expression used by Barney—usually to get Ted to wear a suit to whatever ridiculous pick-up event Barney planned.
The Slutty Pumpkin: Technically, this is a person and a costume. It's described as being a regular pumpkin costume with...strategically placed cut-outs. Later in the series, the Slutty Pumpkin is played Katie Holmes.
Cockamouse: A cockroach-mouse hybrid first found in the apartment by Lily and Marshall. It was once believed to be a myth by the rest of the gang, but later Robin and Ted confirm its existence (and scariness).
Lemon Law: Arguably one of Barney's most inventive ideas, the Lemon Law allows a person to call off a bad date within the first five minutes.
Thankstini: A Thanksgiving-themed cocktail created by Barney. It's made with one part vodka, two parts cranberry juice, and one chicken bouillon cube.
Kwanzapolitan: Barney also created this Kwanza-themed cocktail. We don't want to ask what's in this.
Baskiceball: A game invented by Marshall and his family that's a mashup of basketball and ice hockey. As for the rules, there are no rules. According to Marshall, the game was invented so that he and his brothers could just "wail on each other."
Marshgammon: A game invented by Marshall that he describes as having "all the best features of all the best games: Candy Land, I Never, Pictionary." It shares half of a name with Backgammon, but according to Marshall, that game is trash. No one understands how to play.
Lawyered: A term used by Marshall whenever he uses facts to disprove another person's argument or theory.
Pause Function: Marshall and Lily's brilliant idea that during an argument, couples are allowed to pause to do something else. Throughout the series, Marshall and Lily have used it for many reasons—but mostly for sex.
Aldrin Justice: Based on her experience with disciplining Kindergarteners, whenever someone misbehaves or is rude, Lily takes away one of his or her "toys." For example, when Ted's old boss Hammond Druthers (Bryan Cranston) treats his employees poorly, she steals his baseball signed three times by Pete Rose.
Crazy Eyes: The idea that crazy women can be identified by the craziness in their eyes.
Jerk Nails: As a counterpoint to Crazy Eyes, this is the idea that men who have well-manicured nails are inherently jerks.
Slap Bet: A bet placed where the winner gets to slap the loser as hard as they possibly can. Barney and Marshall make a slap bet in 2006 that haunts Barney for seven years.
Freeway Theory: According to Barney, relationships are like freeways because both have exits that you can take to get out of them. The exits for relationships are: six hours (a.k.a. the one-night stand), four days, three weeks, seven months, 18 months, 18 years, and death.
